[ANCHOR-199] Anchor Platform guide: PATCH transaction examples (#93)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/anchoring-assets/anchor-platform/sep24-user-guide.mdx

To test this out, go to the [Stellar Demo Wallet][stellar-demo-wallet].

> [![demo wallet connected to the anchor platform](/assets/anchor-platform-sep24-demo-wallet.png)](/assets/anchor-platform-sep24-demo-wallet.png)

Author: I added it to make image clickable (to open it in full size). 
It's not used anywhere else in docs, but I think it's a nice to have (images you added are high-resolution, so it only looks good on big resolution screens. When I had my window split in half, image is too small to see anything)

> [![demo wallet connected to the anchor platform](/assets/anchor-platform-sep24-demo-wallet.png)](/assets/anchor-platform-sep24-demo-wallet.png)

Reviewer: Oh interesting, thats fine then.

You should see the logs reporting a successful connection to the postgres database.

> ## Providing Updates To the Anchor Platform

Author: I placed this before `Integration` section so that reader has a background to understand updates in the `Integration` section.
If we place it into the Integration, I think that nested headers will become be too complicated. (For example, menu on the right won't show sub-section of this section anymore and we will have level-5 headers)
Level 4 should be the limit, if there is a level-5 header it means sub-section should be separated into an independent section

> ## Providing Updates To the Anchor Platform

Reviewer: I think having the `Providing Updates to the Anchor Platform` section as a top-level section is a bit out of place, since we have `Installation`, `Configuration`, and `Integration` currently. I don't think its a problem if our 5th level headers don't show up in the navigation on the right side.

> When the user has provided you the information necessary to facilitate the transaction, you need to update the status of the transaction and provide some of the information you collected to the Anchor Platform.

Reviewer: If we want to keep it here we should generalize it a bit, since this sentence sounds like we're specifically talking about KYC collection, but the intro to this section should talk about the need to update the platform generally.

### Updating Deposit Transaction Via `PATCH`

First step of the deposit flow after starting the deposit itself is collecting KYC. It's usually done in the web-app, but can also be optionally provided by wallet application, using SEP-9. After necessary KYC is collected, `PATCH /transactions` request should be made.

:::tip

When KYC process is long (for example, ID verification), it's advised to first set transaction status to `pending_anchor`, indicating user that KYC is being processed.

:::

#### KYC Being Collected/Verified

Update for this action is simply changing transaction status. It's a good idea to modify message too, reflecting details of the process:

<CodeExample>

```bash
transaction='
{
  "transaction": {
    "id": '"$transaction_id"',
    "status": "pending_anchor",
    "message": "KYC is being verified"
  }
}
'

curl localhost:8080/transactions \
    -X PATCH \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{"records":['"$transaction"']}'

> ```

Author: So, rollback to how it was done before?

> ```

Reviewer: Mostly, yes, but we don't need to provide the curl command for each example.

:::

:::tip

(Optional) You may set transaction status to `pending_stellar`, when it has been submitted to the network, but not yet included in the ledger. Due to the nature of Stellar network, transaction confirmation is almost instant. Some SDKs (Java) have blocking transaction submission method. After receiving success result from the submission method, transaction will already be completed.

:::

#### Completing Transaction

Finally, after transaction has been sent and successfully submitted to the network, it's time to complete transaction:

<CodeExample>

```bash
transaction='
{
  "id": '"$transaction_id"',
  "status": "completed",
  "message": "completed",
  "stellar_transactions": [
    {
      "id": "<stellar_transaction_id>",
      "payments": [
        {
          "id": "<payment_operation_id>",
          "amount": {
            "amount": "10",
            "asset": "USDC:GBBD47IF6LWK7P7MDEVSCWR7DPUWV3NY3DTQEVFL4NAT4AQH3ZLLFLA5"
          }
        }

>       ]

Reviewer: This should not be the schema for `stellar_transactions`, although I just checked the OpenAPI spec and it matches.

We have a list of Stellar transactions, each with a list of payments. I think we need to flatten this to just a list of payments that each have a transaction and operation ID. We can update the docs after we update the platform.

Author: Yes, it's the current schema. I don't think we would be able to flatten it, because it will mess up all structure in Java code

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand, but we can discuss it later, no need to block this PR.

    }
  ]
}
'

curl localhost:8080/transactions \
    -X PATCH \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{"records":['"$transaction"']}'
```

</CodeExample>

:::caution

It's possible to send multiple transactions to fulfill user request, but due to current protocol restrictions, only the latest one will be visible for user via `stellar_transaction_id` field.

> :::

Reviewer: I don't think its worth informing the business about this, or at least not as a "caution", since the business can't control this.

Author: It's something that business controls (it's Stellar transaction sent by business server)

Reviewer: Oh I see you're talking about the deposit case. I don't think anchors have any reason to split the deposit payment into multiple transactions. Typically multiple payments occur because the user underpays in a withdrawal.

Author: In some rare cases there could be a reason to do so (for example, if there are multiple hot wallets and there is a system that prefers to empty old small wallets, that can result in multiple transactions)

Reviewer: Interesting, I hadn't considered that. We can keep it.

#### Handling Errors

> When unrecoverable error happens, it's required to set transaction status to `error`. Message field can be used to describe error details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter an unrecoverable error when processing the transaction, it's required to set transaction status to `error`. Message field can be used to describe error details.
```

<CodeExample>

```bash
transaction='
{
  "id": "<transaction_d>",
  "status": "error",
  "message": "Example error"
}
'

curl localhost:8080/transactions \
    -X PATCH \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{"records":['"$transaction"']}'
```

</CodeExample>

:::tip

This status should not be used after user has made a transfer (if there are some external factors that prevent completing transaction). Instead, refund should be initiated. It can be done either by user's request (in your web view), or automatically.

> :::

Reviewer: Lets add an example for updating the platform of a refund payment.

Author: TBD in another PR

<CodeExample>

```bash
transaction='
{
  "transaction": {
    "id": '"$transaction_id"',
    "status": "pending_user_transfer_start",
    "message": "waiting on the user to transfer funds",
    "kyc_verified": "true",
    "amount_in": {
      "asset": "stellar:USDC:GBBD47IF6LWK7P7MDEVSCWR7DPUWV3NY3DTQEVFL4NAT4AQH3ZLLFLA5",
      "amount": "10"
    },
    "amount_out": {
      "asset": "iso4217:USD",
      "amount": "9.0"
    },
    "amount_fee": {
      "asset": "stellar:USDC:GBBD47IF6LWK7P7MDEVSCWR7DPUWV3NY3DTQEVFL4NAT4AQH3ZLLFLA5",
      "amount": "1.0"
    },
    "memo": "466857256912784999",
    "memo_type": "id"
  }
}
'

curl localhost:8080/transactions \
    -X PATCH \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{"records":['"$transaction"']}'
```

</CodeExample>

:::tip

Setting `memo` and `memo_type` is optional. When status is changed to `pending_user_transfer_start`, Anchor Platform sets `memo` and `memo_type` automatically (only if it's not included in the request). Note that the memo must be unique, this is what helps to associate stellar transactions with SEP transaction.

> :::

Reviewer: I would be a bit more explicit. If the business uses a third-party custodian, they need to generate a memo with their custodian that can be used to receive the user's payment. These memos should be generated per-transaction. If the business custodies their own assets, the anchor platform can generate memos for them.

Author: Good idea

:::note

The Stellar account that will be used to receive funds should be configured in [assets](#specify-your-services-assets)

:::

> #### Tracking Stellar Transaction

Reviewer: Instead of suggesting it in a tip, I would definitely guide businesses to use the observer unless they already have a system for monitoring payments made to their on-chain accounts.

:::

:::caution

The Payment Observer won't validate amounts, and it's your responsibility to verify that the amount sent by the user is correct.

:::

First, wait for the transaction to be included in the ledger (using SDK). This transaction must have correct memo and destination address (distribution account). Once this transaction has been detected and verified, notify the user that the funds have been received:

<CodeExample>

```bash
transaction='
{
  "id": '"$transaction_id"',
  "status": "pending_anchor",
  "message": "Stellar transaction has been received",
  "stellar_transactions": [
    {
      "id": "<stellar_transaction_id>",
      "payments": [
        {
          "id": "<payment_operation_id>",
          "amount": {
            "amount": "10",
            "asset": "USDC:GBBD47IF6LWK7P7MDEVSCWR7DPUWV3NY3DTQEVFL4NAT4AQH3ZLLFLA5"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
'

curl localhost:8080/transactions \
    -X PATCH \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{"records":['"$transaction"']}'
```

</CodeExample>

#### Sending External Transfer

> The next step is to send an external transfer, such as a bank transfer, to the user. When done, change status to notify user transfer has been sent, but has not been confirmed yet.

Reviewer: Lets add that if the business' off-chain rails don't provide enough information on whether the payment is pending instead of delivered, the business should skip this step and mark payments as `completed` after initiating the payment.

<CodeExample>

> ```json

Reviewer: I don't think we should do this, since this isn't a transaction and is in a different section.

Author: I went overboard replacing json examples content 🤦🏼
